W-21772200 | RosettaNet Connector v3.0.0 (#3185)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: rosettanet/3.0/modules/ROOT/pages/rosettanet-connector-upgrade-migrate.adoc

[source,bash]
----
java -Dmule.security.model=fips140-3 \
  -Dorg.bouncycastle.fips.approved_only=true \
  -jar mule-standalone.jar
----

[NOTE]
====
The `org.bouncycastle.fips.approved_only` property is JVM-wide and must be set in your system or runtime configuration when running in FIPS mode.

If you use BCFIPS in FIPS mode, key and algorithm restrictions apply. Only approved algorithms supported by the BCFIPS provider are allowed.
====

=== Step 3: Verify Keystore and Algorithm Compatibility

. Verify that keystores and certificates are compatible with your selected security mode. Some FIPS modes require FIPS-approved algorithms.
. Review the Mule and BCFIPS documentation for approved algorithms if you use BCFIPS in FIPS mode, since key and algorithm restrictions apply.

=== Step 4: Verify Connector Usage in Flows

. Verify that partner certificates and algorithms are compatible with your selected security mode.
. If you use RosettaNet Connector operations in your flows, verify that the connector configuration also exists in your Mule app. 

[[startup-validation]]
== RosettaNet Connector Startup Validation

> At startup, RosettaNet Connector validates that the external library configuration and runtime settings are correct. Validation fails if the Mule application don't meet these requirements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At startup, RosettaNet Connector validates that the external library configuration and runtime settings are correct. Validation fails if the Mule application doesn't meet these requirements:
```

* The application must include one external library. An error occurs if more than one external library is included or if none are included.

> * The `mule.security.model` system property must match the selected external library configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Match the `mule.security.model` system property to the selected external library configuration:
```

> ** For non-FIPS, `mule.security.model` must be disabled. If it's enabled, remove the property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** For non-FIPS, disable `mule.security.model`. If it's enabled, remove the property.
```

> ** For FIPS 140-2, `mule.security.model` must be set to `fips140-2`. If the property is configured incorrectly, a message is logged to correct the setting to `-Dmule.security.model=fips140-2`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** For FIPS 140-2, set `mule.security.model` to `fips140-2`. If the property is configured incorrectly, a message is logged to correct the setting to `-Dmule.security.model=fips140-2`.
```

> ** For FIPS 140-3, `mule.security.model` must be set to `fips140-3`. If the property is configured incorrectly, a message is logged to correct the setting to `-Dmule.security.model=fips140-3`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** For FIPS 140-3, set `mule.security.model` to `fips140-3`. If the property is configured incorrectly, a message is logged to correct the setting to `-Dmule.security.model=fips140-3`.
```

> * The implementation library for the selected security mode must be on the same `classpath`. If the library is missing, startup fails. To resolve the issue, review the error log to find the conflicting library and remove it from the `classpath`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Make sure the implementation library for the selected security mode is on the same `classpath`. If the library is missing, startup fails. To resolve the issue, review the error log to find the conflicting library and remove it from the `classpath`.
```

== Migrate Existing Deployments

RosettaNet Connector 3.x introduces a Global Connector Configuration and supports configurable security modes including non-FIPS, FIPS 140-2, and FIPS 140-3 via the `mule.security.model` system property. Follow the <<upgrade-steps,Upgrade Steps>> to make the necessary changes to your Mule app. RosettaNet Connector's cryptographic behavior is determined by the global configuration, which provides the required libraries and defines the runtime security model.

Existing 2.x flows remain functional without requiring code changes.

=== Migrate Deployments from FIPS 140-2 or 140-3 Environments

. Verify that BCFIPS and FIPS-related settings are configured correctly for your Mule runtime version. For more information, see the *FIPS 140-2 Compliance Support* section on the 
xref:mule-runtime::securing.adoc[Security] page in the Mule runtime documentation. 
. Set `mule.security.model` to `fips140-2` or `fips140-3` as appropriate for your compliance requirements.
. Set `org.bouncycastle.fips.approved_only` to `true` if required by your runtime for compliance.

> . Test your configuration in a non-production environment by running your flows that uses operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Test your configuration in a non-production environment by running your flows that use the operations.
```

= Upgrading and Migrating RosettaNet Connector to Version 3.x
:page-aliases: connectors::rosettanet/rosettanet-connector-upgrade-migrate.adoc

Upgrade Anypoint Connector for RosettaNet (RosettaNet Connector) from version 2.x to 3.x to take advantage of FIPS-compliant cryptographic support and other improvements.

== Supported Upgrade Paths

[%header,cols="50a,50a"]
|===
|From Version | To Version
|2.x |3.x
|===

== Before You Begin

Before you upgrade to RosettaNet Connector 3.x, make sure you have:

> * Mule runtime 4.4.0 or later. See the Mule runtime release notes for FIPS support by version.

Reviewer: @RamaKrishna-4 Can you include a link to the release notes?

Author: I hope this is right way to include release notes link

* RosettaNet Connector version 3.0.0 or later.
* RosettaNet Support Libraries version 2.0.0 or later.

> * For non-FIPS mode, Bouncy Castle Java Cryptography Extension (JCE) provider designed for JDK 1.8 or higher. This configuration requires the `bcprov-jdk18on`,`bcpkix-jdk18on`, and `bcjmail-jdk18on` libraries. Version 1.82 is recommended.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Bouncy Castle Java Cryptography Extension (JCE) provider designed for JDK 1.8 or higher for non-FIPS mode. This configuration requires the `bcprov-jdk18on`, `bcpkix-jdk18on`, and `bcjmail-jdk18on` libraries. Version 1.82 is recommended.
```

> * For Signing MIME Parts, the `jakarta.activation` and `jakarta.mail` libraries are required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `jakarta.activation` and `jakarta.mail` libraries for signing MIME Parts.
```

> * For FIPS modes, bcjmail-fips library is required. Other Bouncy Castle FIPS (BCFIPS) libraries as required by your Mule runtime and security model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `bcjmail-fips` library for FIPS modes and other Bouncy Castle FIPS (BCFIPS) libraries as required by your Mule runtime and security model.
```

> * For FIPS 140-3, Java 17 or later with FIPS-capable JVM if required by your deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Java 17 or later with FIPS-capable JVM if required by your deployment for FIPS 140-3.
```

== Supported Security Modes

RosettaNet Connector 3.x supports these security modes, which are controlled by the `mule.security.model` system property:

* *non-FIPS (default)*
+

> This is the default security mode for Mule applications that don't require FIPS compliance. RosettaNet Connector uses the standard cryptographic libraries `bcprov-jdk18on`,`bcpkix-jdk18on`, `bcjmail-jdk18on`, `jakarta.activation` and `jakarta.mail` which aren't FIPS compliant. Don't set the system property as the default mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the default security mode for Mule applications that don't require FIPS compliance. RosettaNet Connector uses the non-FIPS compliant standard cryptographic libraries `bcprov-jdk18on`,`bcpkix-jdk18on`, `bcjmail-jdk18on`, `jakarta.activation`, and `jakarta.mail`. Don't set the system property as the default mode.
```

|===

image::rosettanet-connector-upgrade-global-element-config.png["Connector configurations that are used for creating Global Elements"]

[[upgrade-steps]]
== Upgrade Steps

Follow these steps to upgrade from RosettaNet Connector 2.x to 3.x. Use the configuration that applies to your selected security mode.

=== Step 1: Update the Connector Dependency

. Update your project's `pom.xml` file to use RosettaNet Connector 3.x:

[source,xml,subs=attributes+]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.mulesoft.connectors</groupId>
    <artifactId>mule-rosettanet-connector</artifactId>
    <version>3.0.0</version>
    <classifier>mule-plugin</classifier>
</dependency>
----

[start=2]
. Rebuild the project and resolve API or configuration changes reported by the build.

=== Step 2: Add a Connector Configuration Global Element

Include only one external library global configuration. Follow the global element configuration steps for your selected security mode.

==== Configure a Global Element for the non-FIPS Security Mode

> . Add the external library global configuration and don't set the runtime property. Also, make sure the BouncyCastle jdk18on library version 1.82 is available to add as an external library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add the external library global configuration and don't set the runtime property. Make sure the BouncyCastle jdk18on library version 1.82 is available to add as an external library.
```

</dependency>
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.sun.mail</groupId>
    <artifactId>jakarta.mail</artifactId>
    <version>${jakarta.mail.version}</version>
</dependency>
----

[start=5]
. Update the `mule-maven-plugin` by including the shared libraries in the *build* > *plugins* > *plugin* section of the `pom.xml` file.

[source,xml,subs=attributes+]
----
<configuration>
  <sharedLibraries>
    <sharedLibrary>
      <groupId>org.bouncycastle</groupId>
      <artifactId>bcpkix-jdk18on</artifactId>
    </sharedLibrary>
    <sharedLibrary>
      <groupId>org.bouncycastle</groupId>
      <artifactId>bcprov-jdk18on</artifactId>
    </sharedLibrary>
    <sharedLibrary>
        <groupId>org.bouncycastle</groupId>
        <artifactId>bcjmail-jdk18on</artifactId>
    </sharedLibrary>
    <sharedLibrary>
        <groupId>com.sun.activation</groupId>
        <artifactId>jakarta.activation</artifactId>
    </sharedLibrary>
    <sharedLibrary>
        <groupId>com.sun.mail</groupId>
        <artifactId>jakarta.mail</artifactId>
    </sharedLibrary>
  </sharedLibraries>
</configuration>
----

==== Configure a Global Element for the FIPS 140-2 Security Mode

> . Add the external library global configuration and set the runtime property. Also, make sure BouncyCastle FIPS (BCFIPS) is available as required by your Mule runtime. Configure BCFIPS in Java Security. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add the external library global configuration and set the runtime property. Make sure BouncyCastle FIPS (BCFIPS) is available as required by your Mule runtime. Configure BCFIPS in Java Security. 
```

+

> For FIPS 140-2, follow the xref:mule-runtime::fips-140-2-compliance-support.adoc[FIPS 140-2 Compliance Support] documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For FIPS 140-2 compliance, follow the xref:mule-runtime::fips-140-2-compliance-support.adoc[FIPS 140-2 Compliance Support] documentation.
```

. Configure the global element as a Mule app in Anypoint Studio:

.. In the *Package Explorer* or Anypoint Studio canvas, open your Mule flow or configuration.
.. Click *Global Elements*. Or click *Create global element*, and then click the plus icon next to Global Elements.
. Click *Create*, and then search for the `RosettaNet` or `External Libs` option and select *RosettaNet External Libs - FIPS 140-2*.
.. Name the configuration.
.. Click *Configure* > *Add recommended libraries*.

> .. Click *OK* to include the libraries as dependencies and shared libraries in the Mule application `pom.xml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Click *OK* to include the libraries as dependencies and shared libraries in the Mule app `pom.xml` file.
```

----
-Dorg.bouncycastle.fips.approved_only=true
----

This example shows the Mule runtime startup configuration for FIPS 140-2:

[source,bash]
----
java -Dmule.security.model=fips140-2 \
  -Dorg.bouncycastle.fips.approved_only=true \
  -jar mule-standalone.jar
----

==== Configure a Global Element for the FIPS 140-3 Security Mode

. Add the external library global configuration and set the runtime property. Also:
** Make sure BouncyCastle FIPS (BCFIPS) is available as required by your Mule runtime.
** Configure BCFIPS in Java Security or by following the Mule runtime FIPS documentation for your version.
** Make sure you have Java 17 or later as required for FIPS 140-3 support in your deployment.

. Configure the global element as a Mule app in Anypoint Studio:

.. In the *Package Explorer* or Anypoint Studio canvas, open your Mule flow or configuration.
.. Click *Global Elements*. Or click *Create global element*, and then click the plus icon next to Global Elements.
. Click *Create*, and then search for the `RosettaNet` or `External Libs` option and select *RosettaNet External Libs - FIPS 140-3*.
.. Name the configuration.
.. Click *Configure* > *Add recommended libraries*.

> .. Click *OK* to include the libraries as dependencies and shared libraries in the Mule application `pom.xml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Click *OK* to include the libraries as dependencies and shared libraries in the Mule app `pom.xml` file.
```

. Verify that keystores and certificates are compatible with your selected security mode. Some FIPS modes require FIPS-approved algorithms.
. Review the Mule and BCFIPS documentation for approved algorithms if you use BCFIPS in FIPS mode, since key and algorithm restrictions apply.

=== Step 4: Verify Connector Usage in Flows

. Verify that partner certificates and algorithms are compatible with your selected security mode.
. If you use RosettaNet Connector operations in your flows, verify that the connector configuration also exists in your Mule app. 

[[startup-validation]]
== RosettaNet Connector Startup Validation

At startup, RosettaNet Connector validates that the external library configuration and runtime settings are correct. Validation fails if the Mule application doesn't meet these requirements:

* The application must include one external library. An error occurs if more than one external library is included or if none are included.
* Match the `mule.security.model` system property to the selected external library configuration:
** For non-FIPS, disable the `mule.security.model`. If it's enabled, remove the property.

> ** For FIPS 140-2, `mule.security.model` must be set to `fips140-2`. If the property is configured incorrectly, a message is logged to correct the setting to `-Dmule.security.model=fips140-2`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** For FIPS 140-2, set `mule.security.model` to `fips140-2`. If the property isn't configured correctly, a message is logged to correct the setting to `-Dmule.security.model=fips140-2`.
```

> ** For FIPS 140-3, set `mule.security.model` to `fips140-3`. If the property is configured incorrectly, a message is logged to correct the setting to `-Dmule.security.model=fips140-3`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** For FIPS 140-3, set `mule.security.model` to `fips140-3`. If the property isn't configured correctly, a message is logged to correct the setting to `-Dmule.security.model=fips140-3`.
```

> * Make sure the implementation library for the selected security mode is  on the same `classpath`. If the library is missing, startup fails. To resolve the issue, review the error log to find the conflicting library and remove it from the `classpath`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Make sure the implementation library for the selected security mode is on the same `classpath`. If the library is missing, startup fails. To resolve the issue, review the error log to find the conflicting library and remove it from the `classpath`.
```
